
--- Page 1 ---
A Practical Demonstration of DRL-Based Dynamic
Resource Allocation xApp Using OpenAirInterface
Onur Sever∗, Onur Salan∗, Ibrahim Hokelek∗, Ali Gorcin∗†
∗Communications and Signal Processing Research (HISAR) Lab, TUBITAK BILGEM, Kocaeli, Turkiye
†Faculty of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Istanbul Technical University, Istanbul, Turkiye
Email: {onur.sever, onur.salan, ibrahim.hokelek, ali.gorcin}@tubitak.gov.tr
Abstract—Network slicing is a key enabler for providing a
differentiated service support to heterogeneous use cases and
applications in 5G and beyond networks through creating mul-
tiple logical slices. Resource allocation for satisfying diverse
requirements of slices is a highly challenging task under time-
varying traffic and wireless channel conditions. This paper
presents a deep reinforcement learning (DRL) approach for
allocating radio resources to slices, where the objective is to
meet the latency requirement of the low-latency slice without
jeopardizing the performance of the other slice. The proposed
DRL approach is implemented within an open source mobile
network emulator, namely OpenAirInterface, to create an O-
RAN compliant end-to-end 5G network capable of dynamic re-
source allocation capabilities. The intelligent resource allocation
mechanism operates on the RAN Intelligent Controller (RIC) as
an xApp, enabling monitoring and dynamic resource control of
the gNB through the E2 interface. The results demonstrate that
the latency requirement of the low-latency slice is met under
extremely loaded traffic scenarios, where the trained DRL model
deployed on the near-RT RIC platform is used to dynamically
allocate the radio resources to the slices.
Index Terms—Network Slicing, Open RAN, RIC, Reinforce-
ment Learning, OAI
I. INTRODUCTION
The disaggregation of the RAN into Centralized Unit (CU),
Distributed Unit (DU), and Radio Unit (RU) by 3GPP is an
important concept for enabling a modular and flexible system
architecture. Open Radio Access Network (O-RAN) extends
this functional split by promoting software-defined RAN intel-
ligent controller (RIC) frameworks through standardised open
interfaces for service management and orchestration (SMO)
[1]. Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML)
empowered by big data, cloud and edge networking, and
virtualization are other enabling concepts from the system
perspective for designing flexible and programmable network
infrastructure. These concepts will enable zero-touch network
management while significantly lowering CAPEX and OPEX
in the longer term, and open architectures are anticipated to be
the main driver behind this innovation. It is a highly challeng-
ing task to develop AI/ML based intelligent applications which
can automate network functions as the network conditions
change dynamically due to mobility and unprecedented traffic
variations.
An intelligent SMO is crucial for not only optimizing the
overall network performance but also satisfying Quality of Ser-
vice (QoS) requirements of diverse services and use cases. A
related concept is network slicing (NS) which divides a single
physical network into multiple logical slices to meet specific
application requirements of 5G and beyond networks. NS can
be categorized into core network (CN) slicing [2] and RAN
slicing [3]. The latter remains a particularly challenging and
interesting problem due to time-varying traffic and dynamic
wireless channel conditions [4].
In the O-RAN standards, the non-real time RIC (non-
RT RIC) operates on a time scale longer than one second,
with the main goal of supporting long-term radio resource
management and policy optimization through rApps with AI
and ML models. Similarly, the near-real time RIC (near-RT
RIC) operates on a time scale of 10 ms to 1 second, managing
and controlling valuable radio resources on the RAN side
through xApps [5]. There are numerous studies exploring
the integration of RIC with advanced 6G RAN technologies,
including Reconfigurable Intelligent Surfaces (RIS), MIMO
[6], and Network Slicing [7]. In this context, reinforcement
learning (RL) becomes a prominent tool to optimize resource
allocation and decision-making processes in highly dynamic
network conditions, such as varying channel capacities, traffic
loads, and interference levels [8]–[11]. In these studies, the
action space generally represents the allocation of radio re-
sources, including frequency blocks and transmission power,
to users. This approach allows for continuous adaptation
and optimization of network policies, enabling more efficient
automation of network functions.
In this paper, we propose a DRL-based intelligent resource
scheduling application (xApp) on the near-RT RIC within the
Open RAN (O-RAN) to autonomously allocate the limited
radio resources to network slices. The state space includes
the traffic arrival rates of the network slices while the action
space includes the allocation ratio of the avialable resource
blocks to the low latency slice. The reward function is designed
in such a way that the minimal allocation ratio that satisfy
the delay requirement of the low latency slice is utilized.
We implemented the proposed DRL approach using open
source 5G mobile network emulator, namely OpenAirInterface
(OAI) which provides a complete 5G protocol stack for
user equipment (UE), gNodeB (gNB), and the core network
(CN) [12]. The DRL models are first trained by generating
a comprehensive traffic data set using the iperf tool within
the OAI based end-to-end 5G network emulator, where real-
time traffic ranging from 10 Mbps to 140 Mbps is generated
arXiv:2501.05879v1  [eess.SP]  10 Jan 2025

--- Page 2 ---
E2
Data Network
RC xApp
Near-RT RIC
SM xApp
Trained model
Database
DRL Offline Training Block
CN
AMF/NRF/NSSF/AUSF
SMF 1
UPF 1
SMF 2
UPF 2
DU
gNB
CU
SDAP/PDCP
RRC/PDCP
RLC
MAC
PHY
Slice Aware
Scheduler
DU
RU
Slice 1
Slice 2
UE2
UE1
RF Simulator
Fig. 1. The convergence of the DRL algoritm
for the low-latency slice while the traffic rate for the other
slice is generated with a constant rate of around 117 Mbps.
The DRL-based resource allocation mechanism with emphasis
on the self-organizing network (SON) aspect is an important
enabler to provide robustness and elasticity for mobile network
operators.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section
II introduces the system model of the DRL-based resource
allocation mechanism for network slicing capable O-RAN net-
works. Section III describes the proposed DRL-based resource
allocation algorithm. Section IV presents the experiment re-
sults using open source 5G emulators including CN, gNB,
UEs, and RIC. Section V concludes the paper and highlights
the future work plan.
II. SYSTEM MODEL
Fig. ?? illustrates the system model of the DRL-based intel-
ligent resource allocation mechanism in an O-RAN complaint
mobile cellular network consisting of a CN, a gNB, a near-RT
RIC, and two UEs. The CN provides a Data Network access
by creating two independent slices (Slice 1 in blue, Slice 2
in yellow) with a differentiated service support. A dedicated
user plane function (UPF) and session management function
(SMF) pair is created for each slice within the CN. Each NS
is distinguished from each other using a single network slice
selection assistance information (S-NSSAI), which obtains a
slice/service type (SST) and a slice differentiator (SD). SST
defines the characteristics of an NS using an 8-bit value,
similarly, the optional SD distinguishes slices of the same type
using a 24-bit value. A slice aware gNB connected to the CN
provides a radio access functionality to the users of two slices.
The near-RT RIC platform hosts Resource Control (RC) and
Slice Monitoring (SM) xApps, which communicate with the
gNB through the E2 interface. The SM xApp continuously
collects key performance measurements (KPMs) from the gNB
while the RC xApp is responsible for allocating the radio
resources to the slices.
First of all, the data sets consisting of different traffic arrival
rates and modulation and coding schemes (MCSs) of the users
are generated using the end-to-end 5G emulator. The SM xApp
collects these data sets and writes them to the database. The
DRL Offline Training Block utilizes this dataset to obtain the
trained DRL model which includes the resource allocation
weights of the slices (i.e., DRL actions) corresponding to
different traffic arrival rates of the slices (i.e., DRL states).
The RC xApp is responsible for intelligently allocating the
radio resources to the slices using the trained DRL model.
During the DRL testing phase, the SM xApp provides the
state information to the RC xApp by continuously monitoring
the gNB performance statistics and the RC xApp determines
the resource allocation weights of the slices (the DRL actions)
from the trained DRL model. Once these weights are provided
to the gNB, the scheduler provided by the OAI emulator
ensures that the resources are allocated according to the RC
xApp provided resource allocation weights. When the trained
DRL model is not used, the default resource allocation weights
are set to equal in the OAI emulator.
III. DRL-BASED RESOURCE ALLOCATION
An agent in a typical RL mechanism interacts with its
environment to maximize its rewards. One technique for
predicting the reward of an action is Q-learning which is
iteratively updated to obtain the Q(s,a) function. A deep neural
network (DNN) is utilized to approximate the Q-function in
the deep Q-Network (DQN) which uses a ϵ-greedy policy to
choose actions. Experiences are randomly selected from the

--- Page 3 ---
replay memory to avoid biases in learning. The aim of training
is to decrease the discrepancy between the target and predicted
Q-values using a loss function [9].
For the sake of simplicity, this paper presents the DRL-
based resource allocation when there are two diverse slices
in the network. However, the DRL approach can be further
extended to support more than two slices. The DRL policy
for the first slice is to use the minimum number of resource
blocks (RBs) that can satisfy the pre-defined delay threshold
(DT ) while the policy for the second slice is to utilize the
remaining RBs to maximize its throughput. The DQN algo-
rithm dynamically modifies the resource allocation weights of
the slices to ensure that each slice adheres to its pre-defined
policies and maximizes the overall network performance.
A. State
Our state space is defined by all possible traffic arrival rates
of the selected slice. The state space of the model would
become extremely large if the traffic arrival rate of the slice
were used without a quantization process. To reduce the state
space, the quantized traffic arrival rate (ˆtarr) is calculated as
follows:
ˆtarr =
jtarr −L
s
m
s + L
(1)
where tarr, s, and L represent traffic arrival rate, quantization
step, and the minimum traffic arrival rate, respectively. If ˆtarr
exceeds the maximum traffic arrival rate (H), the clipped
traffic arrival rate is calculated using the following formula:
¯tarr =





H,
if ˆtarr ≥H
L,
if ˆtarr ≤L
ˆtarr,
otherwise
(2)
B. Action
The action space of the DRL includes the resource alloca-
tion weight of the selected slice as follows:
A(s) = {a1, a2, . . . , an}
(3)
where 0 < ai < 100. Here, the resource allocation weight of
the selected slice represents the percentage of RBs allocated to
the selected slice. In this study, the resource allocation weight
is changed from 10% to 90% by the increment of 5%.
C. Reward
The DRL reward function is designed as follows:
A∗(s) = {ak ∈A(s) : UEd < DT }
(4)
where UEd represents the delay in the service data unit (SDU).
R = −1 · |ai −min{A∗(s)}|
(5)
The reward function selects an action which provides the
minimum delay requirement of the selected slice using the
minimum number of RBs. As the absolute difference be-
tween the action ai selected by the agent and min{A∗(s)}
increases, the agent moves further away from the optimal
action. Conversely, as the absolute difference decreases, the
agent approaches the optimal action.
Parameters
Value
Model Architecture
Fully connected 5 layers
Hidden Layer Size
256
Activation Function
ReLU
Adam optimizer
β1 = 0.9, β2 = 0.999
Learning Rate
0.001
Batch Size
128
Replay Buffer Size
10,000
Target Network Update
Every N episodes
Discount Factor (γ)
0.99
Exploration Strategy
ε-greedy (1 →0.01)
Training Episodes
1500
Maximum step number
100
TABLE I
TRAINING MODEL PARAMETERS
IV. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
In this section, we present the experimental setup and
measurement results using the O-RAN compliant end-to-end
5G network emulator including 5G CN, 5G gNB, and UEs
developed by OpenAirInterface (OAI). FlexRIC developed by
the MOSAIC5G project group is utilized as the near-RT RIC
platform [13]. The OAI gNB emulator with 106 PRBs and
30 kHz SCS runs on a PC (Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS, Intel i9-
13900K), together with two OAI UEs and FlexRIC platform.
The OAI CN emulator runs on a separate PC (Ubuntu 22.04.5
LTS, Intel i7-1260P). For all experiments, the RF simulator is
utilized to simulate wireless channels between the gNB and
UEs.
In this study, the training of the DRL agent is performed
using the DQN algorithm using the parameters in Table I. For
generating the data set using the iperf tool, the traffic arrival
rate is varied from 10 Mbps to 140 Mbps for the selected
slice while the traffic arrival rate of the other slice is kept
constant around 117 Mbps. The SM xApp periodically collects
performance statistics including downlink traffic volume and
latency from the gNB. In each traffic arrival scenario, the
SM xApp writes the collected performance statistics to the
database at 100 ms intervals for a duration of two minutes.
The DRL agent is trained using the datasets acquired from the
database. Fig. [2] shows that the average reward increases with
the number of episodes, demonstrating that the DRL algorithm
successfully converges.
The performance of the proposed DRL approach is com-
pared with the proportional fair (PF) scheduling algorithm
which is available in the OAI emulator. Note that we conducted
13 different experiments corresponding to 13 different traffic
arrival rate combinations of the slices for each algorithm as
depicted in Figs. 3-5, where the x-axis represents the average
traffic arrival rate of Slice 1. For example, the arrival rate of
Slice 2 is set to 117 Mbps for 13 experiments while the arrival
rate of Slice 1 is increased from 20 Mbps to 140 Mbps by the
increment of 10 Mbps. For each experiment with the duration
of 5 minutes, the average performance results (packet loss rate,
latency, traffic departure rate) are reported.
Fig. 3 illustrates the average packet loss rate results of the
DRL and the PF approaches for each slice. The DRL method
achieves zero packet loss for Slice 1 (DRL-S1) under any

--- Page 4 ---
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Number of episodes
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Average Reward
Fig. 2. The convergence of the DRL algoritm
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
Average traffic rate (Mbps)
0
5
10
15
20
Packet loss rate (%)
DRL-S1
DRL-S2
PF-S1
PF-S2
Fig. 3. The packet loss rate results for the DRL and PF approaches
traffic arrival rate scenario as the policy specifies the reliability
objective for Slice 1. When the traffic arrival rate of Slice 1
increases beyond 60 Mbps, we observed that there are non-
zero packet loss rates for Slice 2 while the DRL provides no
packet loss for both slices up to the traffic arrival rate of 110
Mbps. When the traffic arrival rate of Slice 1 goes beyond 110
Mbps, the DRL still maintains zero packet loss at the expense
of higher packet loss rates for Slice 2. This is an expected
result according to the network administrator specified policy.
For the PF approach, the traffic arrival rate of Slice 1 is beyond
120 Mbps, the packet loss rates of Slice 2 is lower than Slice
1. This might be due to the fact that the PF provides equal
RB allocation for each slice under heavy traffic loads while
the arrival rate of Slice 2 is lower.
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
Average traffic rate (Mbps)
0
200
400
600
800
Latency (ms)
DRL-S1
DRL-S2
PF-S1
PF-S2
D
T
Fig. 4. The latency results for the DRL and PF approaches
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
Average traffic rate (Mbps)
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
T
raffic departure rate (Mbps)
DRL-S1
DRL-S2 
PF-S1
PF-S2
Fig. 5. The traffic departure rate results for the DRL and PF approaches
Fig. 4 shows the average latency results of the DRL and the
PF approaches for all slices. The DRL method successfully
satisfies the latency requirement of Slice 1 (DRL-S1) under
any traffic arrival rate scenario by keeping the average latency
results of Slice 1 below the pre-defined threshold value. When
the traffic arrival rate of Slice 1 increases beyond 60 Mbps, we
observed that the latency of PF-S2 begins to rise sharply while
both DRL-S1 and DRL-S2 result in low latency values below
the threshold up to the traffic arrival rate of 110 Mbps for
Slice 1. Using the same traffic arrival rates, Fig. 5 illustrates
the average traffic departure rate results of the DRL and the
PF approaches at the gNB for both slices. The results are
consistent with the packet loss rate and latency resuts in Fig.
3 and Fig. 4, respectively.

--- Page 5 ---
V. CONCLUSION
This paper proposes a DRL-based intelligent resource al-
location mechanism which is implemented within an open
source mobile network emulator. We performed a sucessful
demonstration of the DRL-approach using O-RAN compliant
end-to-end 5G network, where the dynamic resource alloca-
tion is performed by an xApp running on the near-RT RIC
platform. The experiment results demonstrate that the DRL
approach satisfies the latency requirement of the selected slice
under heavily loaded traffic scenarios. The performance results
show that the DRL-based RAN slicing approach optimizes the
resource utilization compared to the default resource allocation
in the OAI platform. For future work, we will validate the
proposed method in an over-the-air environment instead of
using an RF simulator.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Polese, L. Bonati, S. D’oro, S. Basagni, and T. Melodia, “Under-
standing O-RAN: Architecture, interfaces, algorithms, security, and re-
search challenges,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 25,
no. 2, pp. 1376–1411, 2023.
[2] A. Blenk, A. Basta, M. Reisslein, and W. Kellerer, “Survey on network
virtualization hypervisors for software defined networking,” IEEE Com-
munications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 18, no. 1, pp. 655–685, 2015.
[3] A. Ksentini and N. Nikaein, “Toward enforcing network slicing on RAN:
Flexibility and resources abstraction,” IEEE Communications Magazine,
vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 102–108, 2017.
[4] M. Zangooei, N. Saha, M. Golkarifard, and R. Boutaba, “Reinforcement
learning for radio resource management in RAN slicing: A survey,”
IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 61, no. 2, pp. 118–124, 2023.
[5] L. Bonati, S. D’Oro, M. Polese, S. Basagni, and T. Melodia, “Intelli-
gence and learning in O-RAN for data-driven NextG cellular networks,”
IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 59, no. 10, pp. 21–27, 2021.
[6] S. S. R. Jonnavithula, I. K. Jain, and D. Bharadia, “MIMO-RIC:
RAN intelligent controller for MIMO xApps,” in Proceedings of
the 30th Annual International Conference on Mobile Computing
and Networking, ser. ACM MobiCom ’24.
New York, NY, USA:
Association for Computing Machinery, 2024, p. 2315–2322. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3636534.3701548
[7] J. Dai, L. Li, R. Safavinejad, S. Mahboob, H. Chen, V. V. Ratnam,
H. Wang, J. Zhang, and L. Liu, “O-RAN-enabled Intelligent Network
Slicing to Meet Service-Level Agreement (SLA),” IEEE Transactions
on Mobile Computing, 2024.
[8] Y. Cui, X. Huang, P. He, D. Wu, and R. Wang, “QoS guaranteed network
slicing orchestration for Internet of vehicles,” IEEE Internet of Things
Journal, vol. 9, no. 16, pp. 15 215–15 227, 2022.
[9] H. A. Akyıldız, Ö. F. Gemici, I. Hökelek, and H. A. Çırpan, “Hierarchi-
cal reinforcement learning based resource allocation for RAN slicing,”
IEEE Access, 2024.
[10] M. Alsenwi, N. H. Tran, M. Bennis, S. R. Pandey, A. K. Bairagi,
and C. S. Hong, “Intelligent resource slicing for eMBB and URLLC
coexistence in 5G and beyond: A deep reinforcement learning based
approach,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, vol. 20,
no. 7, pp. 4585–4600, 2021.
[11] H. Zhou, M. Elsayed, and M. Erol-Kantarci, “RAN resource slicing
in 5G using multi-agent correlated Q-learning,” in 2021 IEEE 32nd
Annual International Symposium on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio
Communications (PIMRC).
IEEE, 2021, pp. 1179–1184.
[12] N. Nikaein, M. K. Marina, S. Manickam, A. Dawson, R. Knopp, and
C. Bonnet, “OpenAirInterface: A flexible platform for 5G research,”
ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review, vol. 44, no. 5, pp.
33–38, 2014.
[13] R. Schmidt, M. Irazabal, and N. Nikaein, “FlexRIC: An SDK for
next-generation SD-RANs,” in Proceedings of the 17th International
Conference on emerging Networking EXperiments and Technologies,
2021, pp. 411–425.
