
--- Page 1 ---
1
OpenTwin: Digital Twin–Driven Closed-Loop
KPM Inference and Control for Open RAN
Md Sharif Hossen*, Senior Member, IEEE, Zifan Zhang*, Dara Ron,
Yuchen Liu, Member, IEEE, Vijay K. Shah, Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—The open radio access network (O-RAN) RAN
intelligent controller (RIC) hosts data-driven xApps and rApps to
optimize network performance. However, two challenges hinder
ML-driven xApp/rApp development: (i) key performance metric
(KPM) data scarcity caused by interface latency, and (ii) network
disruption risks when testing and validating AI models directly on
live networks. We develop OpenTwin, a digital twin framework
built on an open-source O-RAN simulator (ns-O-RAN-flexRIC)
and KPM streaming via the O1 interface, deployed within
the non-RT RIC. OpenTwin uses a two-step ML approach:
an XGBoost model that learns time-varying network behavior
to generate simulator configuration parameters, followed by a
time-aware recursive least squares (RLS) tuner that continu-
ously corrects KPM deviations between the twin and real-world
measurements. A deviation-aware scoring mechanism monitors
twin fidelity and automatically triggers resynchronization upon
detecting network drift. We demonstrate OpenTwin with an
energy-saving xApp that validates control policies in the virtual
space before applying reconfigurations to the physical network.
Experimental results show that OpenTwin mirrors real-world
KPMs with up to 96% accuracy and enables the xApp to
significantly reduce energy consumption without disrupting live
operations.
Index Terms—Open RAN, Digital Twin, Closed-loop Control,
KPM Modeling, XGBoost, Recursive Least Squares, Network
Synchronization, Energy-efficient RAN
I. INTRODUCTION
The next-generation open radio access network (O-RAN)
is transforming the cellular ecosystem and is already being
trialed and deployed for 5G networks in the United States and
worldwide [1], [2]. Unlike traditional, vertically integrated cel-
lular architectures, O-RAN promotes openness, programma-
bility, interoperability, and virtualization, enabling operators
to mix and match hardware and software components from
different vendors [3]. This paradigm shift enhances flexibility,
scalability, and cost efficiency for operators while foster-
ing competition and innovation among vendors, ultimately
benefiting consumers. The momentum is reflected in market
projections: the O-RAN sector, valued at $1.69 billion in 2023,
is expected to surpass $455 billion by 2036, with a 53.8%
compound annual growth rate (CAGR) [4].
Md Sharif Hossen, Dara Ron, and Vijay K. Shah are with the Department
of Electrical and Computer Engineering, North Carolina State University,
Raleigh, NC, 27695, USA (Email: {mhossen, dron, vijay.shah}@ncsu.edu).
(Corresponding author: Vijay K. Shah.)
Zifan Zhang and Yuchen Liu are with the Department of Computer
Science, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC, 27695, USA (Email:
{zzhang66, yuchen.liu}@ncsu.edu).
*These authors contributed equally to this work.
O-RAN has defined two levels of RAN intelligent con-
trollers (RIC), which enable software-defined, data-driven con-
trol of RAN [5], [6]. RIC collects telemetry, hosts modular
control applications, and coordinates decision-making across
distributed network elements. It operates across two comple-
mentary control loops: the near-real-time RIC (near-RT RIC)
manages fast control loops (10 ms–1 s) via xApps, while the
non-real-time RIC (non-RT RIC) leverages rApps operating at
slower timescales (≥1 s). Both RICs also host third-party ar-
tificial intelligence (AI)-driven software microservices, which
perform various RAN functionalities, including optimizing
operational networks and costs and addressing various O-RAN
use cases to enhance network performance. O-RAN Work
Group 1 has released a technical report that demonstrates
the critical role of AI-driven xApp/rApp in advancing O-
RAN capabilities across various use cases, including seamless
handovers, radio resource optimization, quality of experience
(QoE) enhancement, traffic steering, RAN slice service level
agreement (SLA) assurance, dynamic spectrum sharing, and
congestion prediction [7].
While the RIC’s programmable control plane marks a
major advance over legacy wireless systems, we identify two
categories of systemic challenges: (i) telemetry data scarcity
and (ii) the safety of network testing and validation for AI.
(i) Telemetry data scarcity: KPMs and I/Q samples collected
from physical networks through open interfaces (O-Fronthaul,
E2, and O1) provide critical data for effective network control
and orchestration. However, data scarcity caused by latency
constraints in near-RT and non-RT RICs limits the frequency
of KPM updates, compromising timely data collection and
network adaptation.
(ii) Lack of validation, safety, and scalability: AI-driven
control xApps/rApps require continuous KPM feedback over
time (e.g., at sub-millisecond intervals) to validate and refine
their models. However, when AI agents learn directly through
interactions with physical networks via the E2 and O1 inter-
faces, the limited availability of real-time KPMs and the trial-
and-error nature of learning can lead to network instability
or service disruption. Despite the advances enabled by the
RF scenario server, a massive channel emulator (MCHEM),
high-fidelity ray-tracing, and 3D mapping, several limitations
persist. Synchronization between virtual and real networks un-
der dynamic conditions, configuration changes, and/or network
drift remains challenging due to high computational complex-
ity. Furthermore, the high computational cost of continuous
digital twin (DT) updates limits scalability for large-scale
deployments.
arXiv:2605.24662v1  [cs.NI]  23 May 2026

--- Page 2 ---
2
DT technology has emerged as a complementary tool for
addressing the above challenges [8], [9]. It represents an
evolution of next-generation wireless networks, offering a
virtual representation of physical networks that serves as a
promising framework to facilitate network design, analysis,
operation, automation, control, optimization, monitoring, and
orchestration, particularly for AI training, testing, and valida-
tion [10], [11], [12], [13]. Telecom unions, network operators,
and university labs, including ITU-R, O-RAN Alliance, and
NVIDIA’s Sionna, have actively designed, developed, and out-
lined roadmaps for future DT development. ITU-T has defined
the requirements and architecture of DT technology [14], while
ITU-R has identified DT as a key 6G enabler in its report on
future international mobile telecommunications (IMT) systems
toward 2030 and beyond [15]. ITU-R recommends prioritizing
a top-level DT design for the RAN before extending it beyond
the RAN scope. NVIDIA has actively developed a high-fidelity
DT platform called Sionna Omniverse
[16], designed as
an advanced simulator for next-generation wireless network
development and deployment. It incorporates site-specific 3D
maps (e.g., buildings and other structures) and employs ray-
tracing techniques to model signal reflection, refraction, and
RF propagation channels. The Sionna Omniverse provides
a virtual environment for deploying base stations and users
within the simulator to perform network analysis, modeling,
and optimization offline before real network deployment.
However, the NVIDIA DT operates entirely independently
of physical networks, raising concerns regarding calibration
errors, missing configuration parameters, and limited ability
to mirror real network dynamics. The O-RAN Next Gen-
eration Research Group has released a research report on
DT RAN use cases, specifying DT development directly
connected to physical networks for AI/ML workflows such
as model training, testing, and continuous optimization [17].
The Colosseum DT described in [18] relies on the CaST
workflow to identify node locations and trajectories, generate
3D maps using OpenStreetMap, and extract RF propagation
channels from MATLAB or Sionna ray-tracer outputs. It is
coupled with an RF scenario server and an MCHEM to achieve
better alignment of RF channels between the DT and the real
network.
SAJD [19], [20] introduces a self-adaptive jamming detec-
tion framework leveraging closed-loop learning in O-RAN.
However, such approaches rely solely on real-world data
and lack integration with digital twin environments. Recent
efforts have also investigated security and privacy challenges
in O-RAN. For example, ZT-RIC [21] proposes a zero-trust
framework that enables privacy-preserving xApp inference
over encrypted KPM data. They do not provide mechanisms
for predictive network modeling, digital twin synchronization,
or safe pre-deployment validation of control policies.
We identify three key challenges when applying the existing
DT tool within O-RAN system, which can be highlighted as
follows.
• Lack of full attention to all metrics: Beyond high-fidelity
RF channels, a comprehensive set of metrics is essential
for efficient network prediction, control, and orchestration.
The metrics requiring careful attention include time/frequency
offset, bit rate, bit error rate (BER), modulation and coding
scheme, received signal strength indicator, transmitted packet
size, latency, signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), physical resource
blocks (PRBs), buffer size, and more. They enable a deep
understanding of the network demands and allow the system
to intelligently manage and cross-layer control the network
(NET), medium access control (MAC), and physical (PHY)
layers to effectively meet performance objectives.
• Limitations in flexibility under real network drift:
Despite the advances enabled by the RF scenario server,
MCHEM, high-fidelity ray-tracing, and 3D mapping, several
limitations persist. Synchronization between virtual and real
networks under dynamic conditions, configuration changes,
and/or network drift remains challenging. The high compu-
tational complexity of the Sionna DT and the absence of
predictive network configuration in Colosseum limit their
flexibility and scalability in mimicking real network changes.
• Absence of predictive capability: Previous studies have
primarily focused on constructing high-fidelity DT but lack
the predictive capability to forecast near-future network states.
In this paper, we develop an OpenTwin, an intelligent DT
framework for O-RAN that centers around addressing three
challenges outlined above by providing All the Metrics You
Need, coupled with high flexibility, scalability, and predictive
capability for efficient RAN network control and orchestration
and ever-enhancing DT mirroring. The contributions of our
proposed OpenTwin are clearly highlighted as follows.
• OpenTwin leverages a well-known network simulator
(ns-O-RAN-flexRIC [22]) and KPM streaming via O1 to
develop an intelligent and reliable DT within non-RT RIC,
enabling communication between the virtual twin networks
and the physical networks through open interfaces. This
bidirectional exchange allows DT to collect KPMs, continu-
ously adjust simulator configurations to adapt to the dynamic
environment, and enable xApps/rApps to feed well-suited
configurations back to the physical network so as to maximize
network operational efficiency.
• Building OpenTwin requires a predictive network config-
uration file (JSON) for the network simulator, along with tuned
KPMs generated by the simulator. Therefore, we incorporate
a two-step AI-driven approach into the proposed OpenTwin
framework to build a robust virtualized network. First, an
extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) algorithm capable of
fast learning and overfitting prevention is employed to capture
historical patterns of the upcoming KPMs and generate well-
suited configurations for the simulator. Second, a time-series
tuning algorithm, recursive least squares (RLS), is applied
on top of XGBoost to validate the KPMs generated by the
simulator and minimize deviations from those collected in
the physical networks. Beyond KPM error mitigation, both
XGBoost and RLS work together to capture network variations
and predict near-future network states.
• An energy-saving xApp is developed to demonstrate the
performance improvements achieved by our OpenTwin. This
xApp interacts with OpenTwin to manage and validate the
networks within virtual space, aiming to save energy while
maintaining service reliability, with a focus on throughput and
latency that adhere to application requirements, without any

--- Page 3 ---
3
Fig. 1: O-RAN network architecture: Network elements, RIC microservices, and control loop time scale.
physical network disruption.
• The experiments demonstrate that the ML models incorpo-
rated into OpenTwin, such as XGBoost and RLS, outperform
other time-series learning schemes, including Random Forest,
LSTM, and Transformer. Working together, these models
achieve remarkable performance, enabling the OpenTwin to
accurately mirror real-world networks with high fidelity and
flexibility under network drift, approaching an accuracy level
of up to 96%. Moreover, we demonstrate that the energy-
saving xApp can manage the network within these virtualized
networks, significantly reducing energy consumption.
II. BACKGROUND: O-RAN
Fig. 1 illustrates the O-RAN architecture, including dis-
aggregated components, functionalities, open interfaces, and
closed-loop control time scales. O-RAN is a disaggregated
RAN architecture that builds upon and complements 3rd Gen-
eration Partnership Project (3GPP) standards and specifications
while extending them through open interfaces for third-party
integration, network virtualization, and intelligent functions for
control and optimization of the RAN [23], [24], [3]. The O-
RAN architecture further extends 3GPP’s New Radio (NR)
by splitting the traditional monolithic base station (BS) into
disaggregated components, including the open central unit (O-
CU), distributed unit (O-DU), and radio unit (O-RU) [25].
The O-RU handles radio front-end operations, digital front-
end processing, lower physical-layer functions, and fronthaul
transport. The O-DU is responsible for real-time RAN control,
handling the high physical layer along with the medium access
control (MAC) and radio link control (RLC) layers. It executes
tasks such as scrambling, modulation, layer mapping, and
resource block allocation and is connected to the O-CU via
the F1 interface. The O-CU is split into two components:
one for the control plane (CP) and another for the user plane
(UP), which hosts the RAN functionalities, including (i) the
radio resource control (RRC) layer, which manages connection
lifecycles; (ii) the service data adaptation protocol (SDAP)
layer, which handles quality of service (QoS) for traffic flows;
and (iii) the packet data convergence protocol (PDCP) layer,
which performs reordering, duplication, and encryption to
ensure secure and reliable over-the-air communication.
The O-RAN Alliance has also standardized other open
interfaces, including E2, A1, and O1, which enable con-
nectivity between the O-CU and/or O-DU and the RAN
intelligent controller (RIC) [1], [19]. The near-RT RIC hosts
multiple microservices, known as xApps, which perform
various RAN control and optimization functions, such as
latency and throughput management [26], traffic steering and
load balancing [27], dynamic spectrum sharing [28], attack
detection [29], quality of service (QoS) enhancement [30],
and intelligent network slicing [31]. Multiple near-RT RICs
can stream telemetry data to a meta server (non-RT RIC)
via the A1 interface. The non-RT RIC, as a component of
the service management and orchestration (SMO) framework,
hosts RAN applications, known as rApps, which govern all O-
RAN components (O-DU, O-CU, and near-RT RIC) connected
to the SMO, enabling high-level decision-making and policy
control to enhance over-the-air communications between cellu-
lar networks and thousands of users across large geographical
regions. We leverage key features of the non-RT RIC, such as
its high computational capability and large-scale control, to
develop a high-fidelity OpenTwin, creating a virtual space
for network testing, validation, and training.
III. PROPOSED OPENTWIN SYSTEM
In this study, we develop OpenTwin, which incorporates
data-driven ML models into scenario-driven network simula-
tors (e.g., ns-O-RAN-flexric [22]) to construct a reliable and
flexible OpenTwin within the non-RT RIC. As illustrated in
Fig. 2, our framework establishes a DT-driven feedback loop,
with assistance from key performance measurements (KPMs),
between configuration inference, reconstruction, and network
optimization. Unlike existing simulators that operate in an
open-loop manner, this closed-loop method transforms the
conventional static network simulator into an adaptive twin
with high fidelity that can replicate key KPM distributions
and monitor deviations as the O-RAN network evolves. ML
models are responsible for observing variations and capturing
patterns in physical O-RAN network states to automatically
generate optimal network configurations, tune the synthetic
KPMs from simulators to align with the distribution of real
KPMs from physical networks, and predict near-future net-
work conditions to provide a lookahead window for xApps
to control and orchestrate the network before events occur.
In the next few subsections, we will first briefly give a high-
level walkthrough of our proposed OpenTwin in Sec. III-A,
introduce several key modules in Sec. III-B-III-C, and provide
a use case to demonstrate the effectiveness of OpenTwin in
Sec. IV.

--- Page 4 ---
4
Fig. 2: OpenTwin framework with closed-loop feedback between KPM generation, ML inference, and simulation updates.
A. High-level Framework Walkthrough
The proposed OpenTwin framework encompasses three
main components: configuration file generation, KPM tun-
ing and prediction, and network testing and validation
within virtual networks. We first generate a custom config-
uration file regarding how many user equipments (UEs), next
generation nodes (gNBs), bandwidth, packet size, buffer size,
inter-site distance between cells, inter-site distance between
UEs, mobility models, handover mode, outage threshold, and
many other parameters as well. We then modify the network
simulator to parse this configuration file and apply the speci-
fied parameters. ①Once the setup is ready and UEs commu-
nicate with the cells, we extract the raw KPMs generated by
the simulator via O1 interface and store them in an InfluxDB
time-series database. The RIC testing as a platform (RIC-TaaP)
studio is used to monitor the network status and KPMs of the
gNBs’ cells and UEs. ②OpenTwin initiates its first ML com-
ponent to leverage eXtreme gradient boosting (XGBoost) to
learn network traffic patterns from historical raw KPMs and
generate appropriate network parameters for configuring the
network simulator. However, the static and discrete snapshot
configuration parameters generated by XGBoost may not be
sufficient to achieve precise time-varying pattern alignment
between the real network KPMs and OpenTwin due to network
variations such as UE mobility, unknown interference, noise,
traffic load fluctuations, and changing channel conditions.
③To address this challenge, OpenTwin activates its sec-
ond ML component, called the time-aware recursive least
squares (RLS) tuner, a synchronization engine that tunes the
simulator-generated KPMs to minimize their deviation from
the raw KPMs collected from real networks. Depending on
the deviation of the generated OpenTwin and the historical
KPMs, we calculate an average score using the exponentially
weighted moving average (EWMA). ④A Supervisor Block,
as shown in Fig. 2, consumes this score that contains several
microservices. Network configuration regeneration (ConFil-
eReg) monitors the EWMA score; if the score exceeds a
threshold, it regenerates a new configuration file. An initial
configuration file is always generated to start the simulator.
When the microservice program ConFileReg produces a new
configuration and signals that the OpenTwin needs to be
retuned. Once the deviation between raw and DT-predicted
KPMs is minimal, another microservice will be waiting for
sufficient samples of KPMs from OpenTwin to initiate the
xApp for network performance validations, such as turning off
underutilized cells. When OpenTwin concludes that applying
a given xApp policy improves performance in simulation, it
sends a deployment decision to the A1 termination node. The
non-RT RIC then coordinates with the near-RT RIC to deploy
the xApp on the physical network.
B. XGBoost-Based Configuration Generation
1) KPM Preprocessing: In this initial stage, KPMs are
collected through an O1 interface and processed into a uni-
fied, time-aligned feature map. The extracted feature map is
essential for subsequent OpenTwin construction and evalu-
ation. Let M denote the set of collected KPMs. We fix a
sampling interval ∆and index samples by t, where both pre-
defined parameters are selected to capture relevant system
dynamics while controlling signal variance. Note that we use
xt = [x(m)
t
]m∈M ∈R|M| for the KPM vector at time t. For
each KPM m ∈M (e.g., SNR, PRBs, buffer size, modulation
and coding scheme (MCS), or others), we construct a feature
sequence {x(m)
t
}T
t=1 as input for the twinning process. A pri-
mary challenge is handling raw telemetry that arrives at non-
uniform intervals (with a fixed time interval ≥1 s for the non-
RT RIC). As a first step, we apply a low-pass smoothing filter
and resample all data to the common interval ∆. This ensures
downstream twin models operate on standardized inputs. We
further establish a consistent timeline by aligning timestamps
from all sources to a common clock and reconciling unit
conventions. Minor temporal offsets are corrected by cross-
checking shared change points and minimizing discrepancies
among co-varying KPMs, by aligning prominent change points
across KPMs, and by mitigating spurious shifts that could
be misread as drift. This preprocessing step standardizes the
temporal base but does not resolve all data inconsistencies.
Deeper misalignments, such as missing values or data from
sources with fundamentally heterogeneous sampling policies,
are explicitly deferred. These issues will be addressed by the
fully constructed DT, as discussed in later subsections. The
OpenTwin itself is designed to reconcile these inconsistencies
and input missing values, thereby providing a complete and
robust system representation.

--- Page 5 ---
5
To represent both bursty behavior and long-term trends, we
preprocess the raw KPMs to extract short-lag and smoothed
features. In accordance with the tuner formulation intro-
duced later, we define lagged terms {xt−1, . . . , xt−τ}, along
with a windowed average, which can be defined as xt =
1
W
PW −1
i=0
xt−i . Note that, for a generic scalar KPM xt, we
drop the superscript m for simplicity. This averaging reduces
noise variance by a factor of approximately 1/W at the cost
of an average lag of (W −1)/2 samples. This trade-off
stabilizes the learning process while retaining responsiveness
to system changes. We complement these features with rate-
of-change metrics (e.g., xt −xt−1), calendar indicators (e.g.,
time-of-day and day-of-week), and cross-KPM ratios where
domain knowledge suggests stable inter-metric relationships.
This ensures that both OpenTwin construction stage and
the tuner stage operate on a consistent format. All features
are standardized per KPM using statistics derived from the
training set. Furthermore, data quality masks are retained to
enable principled weighting during configuration inference and
calibration.
2) Configuration File Generation: Given the preprocessed
feature maps from Sec. III-B1, our goal is to infer a plausible
O-RAN configuration that explains the observed KPMs and
serves as an initial OpenTwin state. We denote by xt ∈Rd the
KPM feature vector at time t produced by a KPM generator,
where the generator can be either a real O -RAN testbed via O1
or a historical KPM dataset. Each xt is constructed using the
same lag and smoothing operators (e.g., window length W and
windowed average xt) as in Sec. III-B1. Similarly, we denote
by yt ∈Rd the KPM feature vector generated by the network
simulator under a known O -RAN configuration, after applying
the same preprocessing pipeline. The mapping of configuration
file xt 7→c is learned with gradient-boosted trees (XGBoost),
chosen for their ability to capture nonlinear interactions,
handle heterogeneous features, and support structure-imposing
constraints. We use hundreds of feature pairs (yt, ct) solely
from network simulators to learn an inverse mapping from
KPM features to configuration parameters during the training
process, and then apply it to KPM generator features xt, which
share a similar feature schema.
We denote the configuration parameters as a mixed vector
at time t ct =
 ccont
t
, ccat
t

, ccont
t
∈Rp includes p bounded
continuous parameters (like transmit power, bandwidth, buffer
sizes), and ccat
t
includes categorical parameters (like scheduler
type or handover policy). Each parameter has box constraints
[ℓj, uj] for dimension j, while each categorical parameter takes
values from a set {Vk}, with one set Vk for each category k.
We jointly train regressors {fj}p
j=1 for continuous param-
eters and classifiers {gk} for categorical ones by minimizing
a composite loss L, and let T be the index set of simulator-
generated training samples:
L =
X
t
wt
"
p
X
j=1
αjLHuber
 fj(xt), ccont
j,t

+
X
k
βkLCE
 gk(xt), ccat
k,t

#
(1)
where αj, βk > 0 weight parameters by operational criticality.
The sample weight wt incorporates both generated KPM
quality and temporal recency, which is given by:
wt = qt λ T −t,
λ ∈(0, 1),
(2)
with qt ∈{0, 1} derived from the quality masks in Sec-
tion III-B1. The Huber loss provides robustness against out-
liers, while the cross-entropy loss for ccat utilizes class weights
to mitigate imbalance.
At the inference phase, we take a KPM feature vector
xt from the KPM generator. We pass it through the trained
XGBoost models to get raw configuration parameters. For the
continuous parameters, we concatenate the outputs as:
ˆccont
t
=

f1(xt), . . . , fp(xt)
⊤∈Rp.
(3)
In addition, for each categorical parameter k, we get a prob-
ability vector:
ˆπ(k)
t
= gk(xt) ∈[0, 1]|Vk|.
(4)
The raw model outputs ˆc are then projected to a feasible
configuration file to ensure schema validity. For continuous
parameters, we solve a small quadratic program (QP):
˜ccont = arg min
z
∥z −ˆccont∥2
2
s.t. ℓj ≤zj ≤uj, Az ≤b.
This enforces both box constraints (ℓj, uj) and linear coupling
constraints (Az ≤b). For categorical parameters, we take
the calibrated Maximum A Posteriori (MAP) label, ˜ccat
k
=
arg maxv∈Vk Pr
 gk(x) = v

. The result ˜c is a schema-valid
configuration file ready to initialize OpenTwin in the O-RAN-
compliant manner.
This approach provides a fast, synthetic data-driven estimate
of the configuration state via supervised inversion, which is
then refined using simulation. The use of monotone and fea-
sibility constraints ensures that predictions remain plausible.
Because the inference features yt, although collected in the
network simulator, reuse the same KPM format defined in
Sec. III-B1, the inferred configuration ˜c is immediately con-
sumable by the time-aware calibration module (Section III-C).
This design yields an initialization that is feasible and well-
conditioned for continuous synchronization against the real
testbed.
C. Time-Aware Recursive Least Square Tuner
KPMs produced by the simulator with a generated con-
figuration file usually differ from ground-truth measurements
obtained from KPM generators due to modeling simplifica-
tions, stochastic network dynamics, measurement noise, and
unpredictable user activities. To synchronize OpenTwin with
the ground-truth measurements, we design an online correc-
tion tuner that adjusts DT-produced raw KPMs toward the
ground-truth while tracking nonstationarity, e.g., slow drifts
and regime changes. Note that the number of ground-truth
KPM samples is small due to the high collection expense,
so we adopt recursive least squares (RLS) as a data-efficient
online tuning method. Let xt denote the ground-truth KPM
preprocessed in Sec. III-B1 at time t and yt the corresponding

--- Page 6 ---
6
OpenTwin output. The instantaneous residual is rt = xt −yt,
where our goal is to approximate the time-varying relation.
xt ≈g
 yt, yt−1, . . . , yt−τ, yt

,
yt = 1
W
W −1
X
i=0
yt−i, (5)
where the windowed average yt reduces high-frequency noise
variance by approximately 1/W at the cost of an average
lag of (W −1)/2 samples. This feature set captures short-
term dynamics and longer-term trends that are predictive of
systematic bias.
We implement g(·) as a linear, adaptive filtering model
trained with RLS with exponential forgetting. We define the
feature vector ut as:
ut =

1, yt, yt−1, . . . , yt−τ, yt
T ∈Rτ+3,
(6)
and the one-step prediction is given by:
ˆxt = uT
t θt−1,
(7)
where θt ∈Rτ+3 is the time-varying vector of correction
coefficients. With forgetting factor λ ∈(0, 1) and inverse
covariance matrix Pt ∈R(τ+3)×(τ+3), the RLS updates are:
kt =
Pt−1ut
λ + uT
t Pt−1ut
,
(8)
et = xt −uT
t θt−1,
(9)
θt = θt−1 + kt et,
(10)
Pt = 1
λ
 Pt−1 −ktuT
t Pt−1

,
(11)
which is initialized with a small ridge term γ > 0 via P0 =
γ−1I to stabilize early updates under collinearity. Equivalently,
at each time t the RLS solution ˆθt minimizes the exponentially
weighted, ℓ2-regularized objective
ˆθt = arg min
θ
"
t
X
s=1
λ t−s xs −uT
s θ
2 + ρ∥θ∥2
2
#
,
(12)
where ρ > 0 is a ridge regularization coefficient. The corrected
KPM estimate is then ˆxt
≡
ˆyt
= uT
t ˆθt, applied per-
KPM in parallel (each KPM maintains its own θt and Pt).
In practical settings, we optionally trigger the correction to
enhance robustness under abrupt regime changes, letting dt
denote a smoothed deviation defined in Section III-C1 and τm
an acceptance threshold, we use
ˆyt =
(
ˆxt,
if |dt| ≤τm,
yt,
otherwise,
(13)
so that large, sudden discrepancies trigger conservative behav-
ior until the tuner adapts. The forgetting factor λ controls the
speed–stability trade-off: smaller values react quickly to shifts
but increase variance; larger values favor smooth tracking
of slowly varying biases. The choice of window W plays
a complementary role through the bias–variance balance of
yt. Together, the RLS updates and feature design provide a
lightweight, online mechanism to continuously reduce DT-
reference gaps while respecting the nonstationary nature of
the network.
1) Deviation Scoring and Continuous Synchronization: We
continuously monitor the fidelity of OpenTwin with a single
deviation signal that averages smoothed, relative errors across
all KPMs, and then uses this signal to decide whether to retune
the tuner, adjust cadence, or regenerate the configuration. Let
x(m)
t
be the ground-truth value for KPM m at time t, and
let y(m)
t
and ˆy(m)
t
be the raw and RLS–corrected OpenTwin
outputs. To make deviations comparable across heterogeneous
scales, we work with relative percentage errors:
∆raw
m,t = 100
y(m)
t
−x(m)
t
max
 |x(m)
t
|, ϵ
,
∆corr
m,t = 100
ˆy(m)
t
−x(m)
t
max
 |x(m)
t
|, ϵ
,
(14)
where ϵ > 0 is a small constant to avoid division by very small
denominators. These instantaneous gaps can fluctuate rapidly,
so each KPM stream is smoothed with an exponentially
weighted moving average,
dm,t = αm ∆corr
m,t + (1 −αm) dm,t−1,
αm ∈(0, 1), (15)
where larger αm favors recency and smaller αm favors sta-
bility. In practice, αm is set from a target half-life Hm at the
working cadence ∆via αm = 1−2−∆/Hm so that smoothing
has a clear temporal interpretation.
To prevent positive and negative errors from canceling out
and to reflect KPM criticality, we aggregate absolute EWMAs
with nonnegative weights wm,
¯dt =
P
m wm |dm,t|
P
m wm
,
(16)
Weights can encode operational importance and also com-
pensate for noise scale differences. A practical choice is
wm ∝ωm/bσm, where ωm is a priority coefficient and bσm is a
robust scale estimate for ∆corr
m,t (for example, median absolute
deviation), which reduces domination by inherently high-
variance KPMs. When some KPMs are missing or flagged
as low quality by the masks from Section III-B1, we compute
(16) over the available subset with renormalized weights and
defer updates if coverage falls below a minimum threshold.
For a single, interpretable decision variable we map ¯dt to a
normalized score St ∈[0, 1] using global warning and alarm
thresholds 0 ≤τ warn < τ alarm,
St =











0,
¯dt ≤τ warn,
1,
¯dt ≥τ alarm,
¯dt −τ warn
τ alarm −τ warn ,
otherwise.
(17)
In our implementation, we use a fixed choice of τ warn and
τ alarm for regeneration alarms, initialized from offline analysis
of representative traces with expert input. This single-score de-
sign naturally focuses on downstream measurements because
the KPM set already includes metrics tied to the downstream
tasks, such as energy and load-related measurements. Improve-
ments or regressions in those outcomes directly influence ¯dt
and therefore St, so the same synchronization mechanism
governs both OpenTwin fidelity and task-relevant behavior.
Algorithm 1 summarizes the complete closed-loop opera-
tion. At each time step, the framework preprocesses incoming

--- Page 7 ---
7
Fig. 3: Comparison of ML model accuracy.
KPMs and evaluates the deviation score St from (17). If
St−1 exceeds the alarm threshold τ alarm, XGBoost regenerates
the configuration file and restarts the simulator (lines 4-8);
otherwise, the RLS tuner corrects the simulator-produced
KPMs toward the real-world measurements (lines 11-13).
When St falls below the warning threshold τ warn, the twin
is considered faithful and the xApp is permitted to execute
control actions (lines 17-19). The deviation tracking in (15)-
(17) runs continuously throughout the operation, keeping the
twin aligned with the real testbed as load, mobility, and radio
conditions evolve.
We also evaluated sequence-based models, such as LSTMs
and Transformers, using historical KPMs to predict OpenTwin
KPMs. However, as illustrated in Fig. 3, these models struggle
to track rapid PRB fluctuations and require fixed sampling
intervals and large training sets, which is not realistic for
KPM streams delivered by the O1 interface and is very
time-consuming in practice. By contrast, RLS is lightweight,
data-efficient, and responsive, making it more suitable for
continuous OpenTwin synchronization.
IV. USE CASE: ENERGY-SAVING XAPP
In this study, we implement the energy-saving xApp to
demonstrate how this control xApp employs our proposed
OpenTwin to observe network status for efficient control and
orchestration to save energy consumption. As illustrated in
Fig. 2, the control xApp continuously monitors per-UE serving
and neighbor SINR reports via A1 interface. These reports
help as UE–cell attachments to determine when the xApp
will trigger handovers and cell sleep transitions through RIC
indication to control the RAN. When the UE’s serving-cell
SINR drops below a smoothed neighbor SINR, the xApp
triggers a controlled handover to the neighbor with the highest
averaged SINR cell. After all associated UEs are handed over,
if a cell does not serve any UE, xApp will send an RIC
indication to change the cell status to Sleep state to reduce
energy consumption. If a cell has at least one UE, xApp
will treat that cell as active and will not change its state.
Along with this, sleeping cells are also periodically probe-
woken for a short interval to detect new user activity. If there
are no changes in SINR, the cell goes back into the Sleep
state again. This ensures energy savings without compromising
connectivity.
V. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
In this section, we discuss the evaluation of fidelity, adapt-
ability, and the effectiveness of control in the proposed
Algorithm 1 OpenTwin Closed-Loop Framework
1: Input: Real-world KPM stream {xt}, window W, thresh-
olds τ warn, τ alarm, RLS factor λ
2: for t = 1 to T do
3:
Preprocess xt to form inference features vt (for XG-
Boost)
4:
if St−1 ≥τ alarm then
5:
ˆc ←XGBoost(vt)
6:
˜c ←arg minz ∥z−ˆc∥2
2
s.t.
ℓ≤z ≤u, Az ≤b
7:
Restart the network simulator with ˜c and reset
Pt, θt
8:
end if
9:
ysim
t
←network simulator(˜c)
10:
Construct tuning feature ut ←[1, ysim
t , . . . ]T based on
W
11:
kt ←Pt−1ut(λ + uT
t Pt−1ut)−1
12:
θt ←θt−1 + kt(xt −uT
t θt−1)
13:
Pt ←λ−1(Pt−1 −ktuT
t Pt−1)
14:
ˆyt ←uT
t θt
15:
∆raw
t
←|(ˆyt −xt)/xt|;
dt ←αdt−1 + (1 −α)∆raw
t
16:
Update global deviation score St based on dt
17:
if St ≤τ warn then
18:
Trigger xApp logic control based on valid twin
state
19:
end if
20: end for
21: Output: Optimized network control actions
OpenTwin framework with the four steps: (i) DT fidelity, (ii)
adaptation under network drift, (iii) configuration regeneration
via deviation score, and (iv) the energy-saving xApp-based
RAN control.
A. Experimental Setup
1) Network Simulator: Network Simulator 3 (ns-3) is an
open-source, packet-level, discrete-event simulation platform
developed for the scientific community, industry, and educa-
tional purposes. This simulator supports high-fidelity virtual-
ized experiments that are compliant with 3GPP standards and
the Wi-Fi/LTE/5G protocol stack [32]. Its source code can be
reused on real-world testbeds, demonstrating the minimal gap
between simulation and prototype implementations. This open-
source application can be deployed and run on RICs (near-RT
RIC or non-RT RIC) to bridge the connection between 5G
simulations in ns-3 and physical networks. This integration
allows KPMs, including realistic channel data, to be streamed
to the RICs via open interfaces (O-FH, F1, O1, E2, and A1),
supporting the control actions of AI-driven software microser-
vices called xApps and rApps. An ns-O-RAN simulator has
been introduced as an extension of OpenRAN Gym [33] that
integrates the ns-3 simulator with an E2-compliant RIC [34],
[35]. Orange has leveraged the FlexRIC from EURECOM,
the ns-O-RAN simulator from WIoT, the 5G-LENA module
from CTTC, and the Sionna Ray Tracing tool from Nvidia to
develop ns-O-RAN-flexric, an open-source for testing ecosys-
tem initiative designed to streamline xApp/rApp functional and

--- Page 8 ---
8
operational testing, foster innovation in xApp/rApp design, and
provide proven digital-twin networks [22]. Therefore, the net-
work simulator block in the proposed OpenTwin framework
uses this ns-O-RAN-flexRIC simulator, running within the non-
RT RIC, to conduct the experiments.
2) Digital Twin Scenario: Our developed OpenTwin runs
on top of ns-O-RAN-FlexRIC and utilizes the mmWave mod-
ule. Note that the mmWave module only provides related
attributes to our system, but OpenTwin does not directly run
on mmWave band. The simulated network includes one LTE
eNB and N number of gNB mmWave sites. The LTE eNB and
one mmWave gNB are placed at the center of a 4 km by 4
km area, while the other mmWave cells are set up on a ring
whose intersite distance is controlled by a parameter named
IntersideDistanceCells. We apply the 3GPP UMi street canyon
model inside ns-3 to emulate both path loss and channel
conditions. In our scenarios, all antenna elements are modeled
as isotropic, while the carrier frequency and bandwidth are set
through the DT configuration parameters.
On the other hand, the number of UEs, their spacing,
and mobility patterns are set up from the configuration file
that is generated by the inference step in Sections III-B and
V-A5. UEs are uniformly distributed within a disc of radius
given by IntersideDistanceUEs centered on the deployment,
and their movements are triggered following the mobility
model specified by the parameter MobilityModel. For example,
if RandomDirection2dMobilityModel is set up, UEs move
towards the random direction within a 2D plane, with speeds
uniformly distributed within [Speed Min, Speed Max]. The
bounds of the mobility area span the whole simulation area.
Finally, handover behavior is controlled by the hoSinrDiffer-
ence, handoverMode, and outageThreshold parameters, which
map to the radio resource control (RRC) configuration used for
the co-located gNBs. Each radio link control (RLC) entity uses
a transmit buffer size determined by the bufferSize parameter.
3) KPM Collection: We need to collect the KPMs properly
to synchronize them in the DT and the historical KPM
generator, also referred to as real-world (RW) KPMs. We
collect both cell-level and UE-level KPMs from the baseline
ns-3 simulation, which serves as a synthetic ground truth.
For the cell level, we collect KPMs such as downlink PRB
usage, the number of active UEs, PDCP traffic volume, and
detailed transport block statistics, which include the number
of transmitted transport blocks (TB), counts of 16-quadrature
amplitude modulation (16QAM), 64QAM, and quadrature
phase shift keying (QPSK) modulation formats, and TB error
events. While for the UE level, we log each UE’s PRB
allocation, downlink PDCP throughput, serving and neighbor
SINR, buffer status metrics, and PDCP volume based on
the QoS filters. These KPMs are exported through the O1
interface, which imitates the behavior and periodicity of O1
reporting. These are then stored with timestamps and cell or
UE identifiers in InfluxDB. These time series datasets emulate
scheduler actions, traffic dynamics, mobility patterns, and link
quality changes, which are then used as an input for the
XGBoost-based configuration generation and time-aware RLS
tuner.
4) Traffic and E2 Integration: To drive user traffic, we
connect one remote host to the packet gateway (PGW) via
a high-capacity point-to-point link. Each UE is served by one
such saturated downlink user datagram protocol (UDP) flow
from this remote host. Packets are sent every 500 microseconds
by default, as the packet size is taken from the inferred Pack-
etSize parameter. This sets up a constant load that stresses the
scheduler and emphasizes how radio and mobility parameters
impact PRB usage, PDCP volume, and TB error events. The
ns-3 deployment is connected to FlexRIC, so it can expose E2
KPMs that match the real-world O1 telemetry. E2 reporting
for DU, CU-CP, and CU-UP is turned on in accordance with
configuration flags and the chosen indication period. The DT
exports its KPMs according to the same data schema as the
real network, which enables a deviation score computation.
5) Configuration File Prediction: Using a logical or infer-
ence approach, we can extract several configuration fields from
the RW KPMs, such as the number of gNBs and UEs, node
positions, E2 function flags, and the reporting interval. For
the remaining radio, mobility, and buffering parameters that
cannot be logically inferred from the KPM structure, we only
apply ML to predict them. To generate those remaining fields
from the RW KPMs, we compare two approaches, random
forest (RF) and XGBoost, and we evaluate which one more
accurately predicts the configuration file. Table I illustrates
that RF significantly struggles with several key fields, such as
bandwidth, packet size, and speed, often with large errors. In
contrast, XGBoost recovers almost all continuous parameters
with very high accuracy, which are rounded to match the cor-
responding RW KPM-derived configurations. XGBoost also
shows good accuracy in terms of predicting categorical param-
eters, e.g., handover mode and mobility model. As illustrated
in Table II, XGBoost matches closely with the ground truth
configuration, while RF shows noticeable deviations. Given the
importance of XGBoost’s model capability to reproduce the
continuous radio and mobility settings, we consider XGBoost
models to predict the configuration file in our DT.
TABLE I: Example of continuous parameter inference error
using RF and XGBoost.
Parameter
Random Forest
XGBoost
MAE
MAPE
MAE
MAPE
OutageThreshold
0.61
12.2%
0.0007
0.014%
Bandwidth
4.35e6
17.4%
0
0%
CenterFrequency
4.768e7
1.20%
896
0.00002%
IntersideDistanceCells
11
1.83%
0
0%
IntersideDistanceUEs
6
6.0%
0.000259
0.000259%
Speed Min
0.865
43.25%
0.000034
0.0017%
Speed Max
2.83
56.6%
0.000078
0.00156%
PacketSize
134
104%
0.00043
0.00034%
BufferSize
3.1
6.2%
0.00086
0.0017%
HoSinrDifference
0.52
10.4%
0.000427
0.0085%
IndicationPeriodicity
0.032
3.2%
0.000023
0.0023%
B. Experimental Results
1) OpenTwin Fidelity: Fig. 4 demonstrates the high fi-
delity of the proposed OpenTwin using three complementary
results: (a) a comparison of KPMs collected from real net-
works and those generated by the DT over time, (b) a scatter

--- Page 9 ---
9
0
100
200
300
400
500
Time (s)
0
10
20
30
40
50
ue_2_l3 serving sinr
RW
DT
(a) RW serving-cell SINR over time for UE2.
0
10
20
30
RW SINR (dB)
0
10
20
30
DT SINR (dB)
UE4
UE5
UE6
Ideal match
(b) Scatter plot of DT-generated SINR versus
real-world SINR.
UE1
UE2
UE3
UE4
UE5
UE6
UE
0
20
40
60
80
100
DT accuracy [%]
96.6%
97.1%
96.7%
97.3%
96.8%
95.5%
(c) DT accuracy for serving–cell SINR for 6 UEs.
Fig. 4: Serving-cell SINR comparison between real-world (RW) and Digital Twin (DT). (a) Time-series comparison for UE2.
(b) Scatter plot of DT versus RW SINR for representative UEs, where the diagonal line indicates ideal agreement. (c) DT
accuracy across multiple UEs.
TABLE II: Example configuration reconstruction from RW
KPMs.
Parameter
Ground True
Random Forest
XGBoost
OutageThreshold
-5
-4.39
-4.9993
Bandwidth (Hz)
25000000
29350000
25000000
CenterFrequency (Hz)
3970000000
3922320000
3969999104
IntersideDistanceCells (m)
600
611
600
IntersideDistanceUEs (m)
100
106
100.000259
Speed Min (m/s)
2
2.865
2.00003387
Speed Max (m/s)
5
7.83
5.00007821
PacketSize (bytes)
128
262
127.99957
BufferSize
50
46.9
50.00086
HoSinrDifference
5
4.48
4.99957
IndicationPeriodicity (s)
1.0
0.968
1.000023
MobilityModel
RD2MM
RD2MM
RD2MM
HandoverMode
FixedTtt
FixedTtt
FixedTtt
plot illustrating pointwise agreement between DT-generated
and real-world SINR, and (c) the accuracy of user-specific
KPMs generated by the DT compared to those from the
real networks. These detailed results demonstrate the high
fidelity of the proposed OpenTwin. The experimental setup
is described in Subsection V-A, where the number of active
users is set to 6, and the RandomDirection2dMobilityModel
is set up to simulate UE mobility within a two-dimensional
plane. The OpenTwin activates its ML models to learn the
dynamics of the network changes in order to generate a
well-suited configuration file and tune the KPMs to closely
align with those from real networks. The experimental results
demonstrate that (a) the SINR generated by the OpenTwin
(· black dots) almost perfectly coincides with the real-world
SINR (· red dots), (b) the scatter plot of DT-generated SINRs
versus real-world SINRs shows strong pointwise agreement,
with most data points closely aligned along the ideal diagonal
line, and (c) the SINR accuracy of the OpenTwin reaches
approximately 96% compared to the real-world measurements.
These results showcase the robustness of our OpenTwin in
generating network representations within a virtual space for
control xApps/rApps.
2) Adaptability and Flexibility of OpenTwin: This experi-
ment aims to demonstrate the flexibility of the OpenTwin in
maintaining synchronization with real networks under network
drift. The network is configured and scheduled to activate 10
UEs over a time interval of [0, 480] seconds, and 4 of them
are scheduled to become inactive at the predetermined time of
480 seconds. As illustrated in Fig. 5(a), the PRB usage drops
sharply at this point due to those UEs leaving the network.
The results demonstrate that the OpenTwin adapts effectively
to network dynamics, with its KPM (PRB usage) almost
perfectly overlapping the measurements obtained from the
real-world network over time. This achievement highlights the
key features of the OpenTwin models: overfitting prevention,
fast convergence, and the ability of XGBoost and RLS to adapt
to time-varying networks.
Fig. 5(b) summarizes the mean absolute percentage error
(MAPE) across a broad set of KPMs to quantify the overall
fidelity of the DT. The KPMs include transport block statistics,
modulation formats, buffer status, PRB usage, and downlink
PDCP volume and altogether span physical, MAC, and PDCP
layer characteristics. Results show that the DT maintains low
error across all metrics, as most KPMs show MAPE values in
the range of approximately 3 to 6 percent. Of these, lower-level
metrics such as QPSK and error-related TB counters show
particularly small deviations, while more dynamic metrics like
PRB usage and PDCP volume have slightly higher MAPE
values because those KPMs have larger absolute magnitudes.
Across these KPMs, the DT maintains roughly 93% to 98%
accuracy, confirming that it stays tightly synchronized with the
real network even as the number of active UEs changes.
3) Regeneration Triggering via Deviation Score: To in-
struct the regeneration of the configuration file in scenarios
when the DT cannot capture the RW KPMs, we compare the
deviation score in (17) over time as shown in Fig. 6 (a). It
shows that the deviation score S changes over iterations with
respect to a threshold. For example, for a threshold of 0.15,
the score remains below the limit for most of the run, which
indicates that DT is well aligned with the RW.
4) OpenTwin-Assisted Energy Saving xApp: This experi-
ment demonstrates how the energy-saving xApp employs our
OpenTwin to manage the network in a way that reduces
energy consumption. We measure the energy consumption
when the energy-saving xApp is set to both active and inactive
modes to clearly illustrate the amount of energy that can be

--- Page 10 ---
10
0
200
400
600
800
Time (s)
20
40
60
80
100
ue_3_dlprbusage
RW
DT
(a) DL PRB usage versus time for UE3.
tb.totnbrdlinitial.qpsk.ueid
tb.errtotalnbrdl.1.ueid
tb.totnbrdl.1.ueid
l3 serving sinr
drb.buffersize.qos.ueid
tb.totnbrdlinitial.16qam
tb.totnbrdlinitial.64qam
tb.totnbrdlinitial
rru.prbuseddl
qosflow.pdcppduvolumedl_filter
dlprbusage
KPI
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
MAPE [%]
0.52%
1.01%
2.67%
3.51%
3.88%
4.64%
5.10%
5.81%
5.81%
5.83%
5.84%
(b) Mean absolute percentage error versus KPM.
Fig. 5: OpenTwin adaptability under network drift.
(a) Deviation score S over iterations.
(b) Energy consumption versus KPM.
Fig. 6: Total energy consumption in DT and real-world under xApp active and inactive.
saved. The dashed lines represent the scenario in which the
energy-saving xApp is inactive. We observe that the energy
consumption is high in this case. When the energy-saving
xApp is activated, this control xApp immediately observes
the network within the virtual space and interacts with the
OpenTwin via the A1 interface to orchestrate the virtualized
network. A logic-based configuration approach is applied in
this experiment, in which the xApp periodically detects cells
without active UEs and puts them into sleep mode, a state
in which power consumption is reduced. The xApp then
sends a control message to the real network via the E2
interface to implement the necessary changes according to
the network reconfiguration in the OpenTwin. Fig.
6 (b)
demonstrates that the xApp significantly reduces energy con-
sumption. Notably, the energy consumption of the OpenTwin
and the real-world network closely overlap, demonstrating that
the energy savings in the real implementation are consistent
with the performance achieved within the OpenTwin. This
result sufficiently highlights the value of our OpenTwin in
providing a virtual space that allows xApps to control and
manage the network without any disruption to real operations.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we develop OpenTwin, a simulator-assisted
DT framework that allows for closed-loop configuration in-
ference, KPM calibration, and downstream network con-
trol within an O-RAN–compliant architecture. Through an
XGBoost-based configuration generation and a time-aware
RLS tuner for continuous KPM generation calibration, our
OpenTwin emulates the target O-RAN environment and adapts
to dynamic changes in mobility, load, and radio conditions. An
additional deviation-aware, lightweight supervisor microser-
vice ensures fidelity assessment and automatic regeneration
upon detection of significant network drift. Through extensive
experiments, we demonstrate that OpenTwin reproduces KPM
streams, including serving-cell SINR and PDCP volume over
varying load conditions, along with accurate predictions of
the configuration parameters and KPM evolution over time.
We also illustrate the capability of OpenTwin to host down-
stream control applications, such as an energy-saving xApp,
to validate control policies safely and repeatably without a
physical deployment. This ensures our approach is a pragmatic
and extensible foundation for self-calibrating DTs in O-RAN
systems. Because of its modular architecture, high fidelity

--- Page 11 ---
11
under dynamic conditions, and compatibility with existing
O-RAN interfaces, it can be a useful platform for research
on ML-assisted RAN control, xApp/rApp development, and
further work toward integrating live telemetry and partial real-
world synchronization.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work is supported in part by the NSF #2120411 and
#2443035, CNS #2440756, and CNS #2312138.
REFERENCES
[1] N. D. Tripathi and V. K. Shah, Fundamentals of O-RAN.
John Wiley
& Sons, 2025.
[2] A. S. Abdalla, P. S. Upadhyaya, V. K. Shah, and V. Marojevic, “Toward
next generation open radio access networks: What O-RAN can and
cannot do!” IEEE Netw., vol. 36, no. 6, pp. 206–213, 2022.
[3] J. F. Santos, A. Huff, D. Campos, K. V. Cardoso, C. B. Both, and L. A.
DaSilva, “Managing O-RAN networks: xApp development from zero to
hero,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., 2025.
[4] Research
nester
global
market
size,
forecast,
and
trend
highlights
over
2024
-
2036.
Accessed:2026-03-25.
[Online].
Available:
https://www.researchnester.com/reports/open-radio-access-
network-market/2781
[5] B. Agarwal, R. Irmer, D. Lister, and G.-M. Muntean, “Open RAN for
6G networks: Architecture, use cases and open issues,” IEEE Commun.
Surveys Tuts., 2025.
[6] G. Reus-Muns, P. S. Upadhyaya, U. Demir, N. Stephenson, N. Soltani,
V. K. Shah, and K. R. Chowdhury, “SenseORAN: O-RAN-based radar
detection in the CBRS band,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 42,
no. 2, pp. 326–338, 2023.
[7] O-RAN Alliance, “O-RAN massive MIMO use cases technical report
1.0,” O-RAN Alliance, Tech. Rep., 2022, release v01.00. [Online].
Available: https://specifications.o-ran.org/specifications
[8] P. Almasan, M. Ferriol-Galm´es, J. Paillisse, J. Su´arez-Varela, D. Perino,
D. L´opez, A. A. P. Perales, P. Harvey, L. Ciavaglia, L. Wong et al.,
“Network digital twin: Context, enabling technologies, and opportuni-
ties,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 60, no. 11, pp. 22–27, 2022.
[9] Z. Zhang, Z. Peng, H. Yu, M. Chen, and Y. Liu, “Digital network twins
for next-generation wireless: Creation, optimization, and challenges,”
IEEE network, 2025.
[10] ——, “Digital network twins for next-generation wireless: Creation,
optimization, and challenges,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2410.18002, 2024.
[11] T. Li, Q. Long, H. Chai, S. Zhang, F. Jiang, H. Liu, W. Huang,
D. Jin, and Y. Li, “Generative AI empowered network digital twins:
Architecture, technologies, and applications,” ACM Comput. Surveys,
vol. 57, no. 6, pp. 1–43, 2025.
[12] S. M. Raza, R. Minerva, N. Crespi, M. Alvi, M. Herath, and H. Dutta,
“A comprehensive survey of network digital twin architecture, capabili-
ties, challenges, and requirements for edge–cloud continuum,” Comput.
Commun., vol. 236, p. 108144, 2025.
[13] Z. Zhang, M. Fang, D. Chen, X. Yang, and Y. Liu, “Synergizing AI and
digital twins for next-generation network optimization, forecasting, and
security,” IEEE Wireless Commun., vol. 32, no. 3, pp. 98–105, 2025.
[14] ITU-T-3090, “Digital twin network – requirements and architecture,”
International Telecommunication Union, Recommendation Y.3090, 2
2022, available: https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-Y.3090-202202-I/en.
[15] ITU-R
WP
5D,
“IMT
towards
2030
and
beyond
(IMT-2030),”
https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-R/study-groups/rsg5/rwp5d/imt-2030/pages/
default.aspx, 2023, accessed: 2025-11-30.
[16] J. Yang, M. Andersin, T. Balercia, and C. Chong, “Developing next-
generation wireless networks with NVIDIA aerial omniverse digital
twin,” https://developer.nvidia.com/blog/developing-next-gen-wireless-
networks-with-nvidia-aerial-omniverse-digital-twin/,
2024,
accessed:
2025-11-30.
[17] M. C. Kirana, P. Keyela, F. Rostamian, D. H. Tashman, and
S. Cherkaoui, “ML-enabled open RAN: A comprehensive survey of
architectures, challenges, and opportunities,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tut., vol. 28, pp. 4948–4979, 2026.
[18] M. Polese, L. Bonati, S. D’Oro, P. Johari, D. Villa, S. Velumani,
R. Gangula, M. Tsampazi, C. Paul Robinson, G. Gemmi, A. Lacava,
S. Maxenti, H. Cheng, and T. Melodia, “Colosseum: The open RAN
digital twin,” IEEE Open J. Commun. Soc., vol. 5, pp. 5452–5466, 2024.
[19] M. H. Rahman, M. S. Hossen, N. H. Stephenson, V. K. Shah, and
A. Da Silva, “SAJD: Self-adaptive jamming attack detection in AI/ML
integrated 5G O-RAN networks,” in Proc. IEEE Military Commun. Conf.
(MILCOM), 2025, pp. 1130–1135.
[20] M. H. Rahman, M. S. Hossen, N. H. Stephenson, V. K. Shah, and
A. D. Silva, “A demonstration of self-adaptive jamming attack detection
in AI/ML integrated O-RAN,” in Proc. IEEE Military Commun. Conf.
(MILCOM), 2025, pp. 901–902.
[21] D. Lin, S. Bhargav, A. Chiejina, M. I. Ibrahem, and V. K. Shah,
“ZT-RIC: A zero trust RIC framework for ensuring data privacy and
confidentiality in open RAN,” in Proc. IEEE Consum. Commun. Netw.
Conf. (CCNC), 2025, pp. 1–7.
[22] EURECOM, “RIC-TaaP: RIC testing as a platform,” Accessed: 2026-
03-25. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/Orange-OpenSource/ns-
O-RAN-flexric
[23] M. Polese, L. Bonati, S. D’oro, S. Basagni, and T. Melodia, “Un-
derstanding O-RAN: Architecture, interfaces, algorithms, security, and
research challenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 25, no. 2, pp.
1376–1411, 2023.
[24] K. Alam, M. A. Habibi, M. Tammen, D. Krummacker, W. Saad,
M. Di Renzo, T. Melodia, X. Costa-P´erez, M. Debbah, A. Dutta et al.,
“A comprehensive tutorial and survey of o-ran: Exploring slicing-aware
architecture, deployment options, use cases, and challenges,” IEEE
Communications Surveys & Tutorials, 2025.
[25] J. L. Herrera, S. Montebugnoli, D. Scotece, L. Foschini, and P. Bellav-
ista, “A tutorial on O-RAN deployment solutions for 5G: From simula-
tion to emulated and real testbeds,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tut., 2025.
[26] A. Lacava, M. Polese, R. Sivaraj, R. Soundrarajan, B. S. Bhati, T. Singh,
T. Zugno, F. Cuomo, and T. Melodia, “Programmable and customized
intelligence for traffic steering in 5G networks using open RAN archi-
tectures,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 2882–2897,
2023.
[27] F. Kavehmadavani, V.-D. Nguyen, T. X. Vu, and S. Chatzinotas, “Intel-
ligent traffic steering in beyond 5G open RAN based on LSTM traffic
prediction,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 22, no. 11, pp. 7727–
7742, 2023.
[28] L. Bonati, M. Polese, S. D’Oro, S. Basagni, and T. Melodia, “NeutRAN:
An open RAN neutral host architecture for zero-touch RAN and
spectrum sharing,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 23, no. 5, pp.
5786–5798, 2023.
[29] A. Scalingi, S. D’Oro, F. Restuccia, T. Melodia, and D. Giustiniano,
“Det-RAN: Data-driven cross-layer real-time attack detection in 5G open
RANs,” in Proc. IEEE INFOCOM Conf., 2024, pp. 41–50.
[30] A. Wadud, F. Golpayegani, and N. Afraz, “QACM: QoS-aware xApp
conflict mitigation in open RAN,” IEEE Trans. Green Commun. Netw.,
vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 978–993, 2024.
[31] A. Abouaomar, A. Taik, A. Filali, and S. Cherkaoui, “Federated deep
reinforcement learning for open RAN slicing in 6G networks,” IEEE
Commun. Mag., vol. 61, no. 2, pp. 126–132, 2022.
[32] G. F. Riley and T. R. Henderson, “The ns-3 network simulator,” in
Model. Tools Netw. Simul.
Springer, 2010, pp. 15–34.
[33] L. Bonati, M. Polese, S. D’Oro, S. Basagni, and T. Melodia, “OpenRAN
Gym: An open toolbox for data collection and experimentation with AI
in O-RAN,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless Commun. Netw. Conf., 2022, pp.
518–523.
[34] A. Lacava, M. Bordin, M. Polese, R. Sivaraj, T. Zugno, F. Cuomo,
and T. Melodia, “ns-O-RAN: Simulating O-RAN 5G systems in ns-3,”
in Proc. Workshop ns-3, ser. WNS3 ’23.
NY, USA: Association for
Computing Machinery, 2023, p. 35–44.
[35] W. Garey, T. Ropitault, R. Rouil, E. Black, and W. Gao, “O-RAN
with machine learning in ns-3,” in Proc. Workshop ns-3.
NY, USA:
Association for Computing Machinery, 2023, p. 60–68.
